Whale Talk
Takes a phrase like "turpentine and turtles" and translate it into its “whale talk” equivalent, "uueeieeauuee".

There are a few simple rules for translating text to whale language:

There are no consonants. Only vowels excluding the letter y.
The u‘s and e‘s are extra long, so we must double them.
Once we have converted text to the whale language, the result is sung slowly, as is custom in the ocean.

Write a whale.cpp program that accomplishes this translation using loops and vectors.

Let’s get started!

1.
Let’s create a skeleton for the program. Add:

#include <iostream>
#include <vector>
#include <string>

int main() {

  // Whale, whale, whale.
  // What have we got here?

}

2.
Declare a std::string and initialize it with "turpentine and turtles" or anything you’d like.


3.
Whales only speak in vowels so you need a vector of vowels to be extracted from the input variable.

Create a char vector named vowels and give it values of:

a
e
i
o
u
Note: Whales don’t consider ‘y’ a vowel.


4.
Create another vector named result.

This will serve as a place to store the vowels from the input string (the translated whale talk).


5.
So now that we have:

The input string
The vowels
As well as a place to store the resulting chars.

Let’s think about the logic for a minute.

We want to loop through the input string and check if each of the characters is a vowel.

Let’s first write a for loop that iterates through the input string.

6.
But how to check if each of the characters is a vowel? Well, we have to compare each of the characters with each of the vowels.

So we need another loop inside. One loop inside another loop is called a nested loop!

Inside your current for loop, write another for loop inside that iterates through the vowel vector.

Note: Use a different counter variable for the inner loop.


7.
So now as you have a nested for loop, compare each of the characters with each vowels.

Write an if statement that compares input[i] with vowels[j].

If they are equal, add the character to the result vector using .push_back().


8.
To check your work, write another for loop that goes through the result vector and outputs each of the elements.

The output should look something like:

ueieaue

We now have all the vowels!

9.
Whales double the es and the us in their language.

Write an if statement that checks if each letter in the input string is equal to 'e'. If so, .push_back() input[i] to the result vector.

Note: This statement belongs after the inner for loop block, but still inside the outer for loop. This is because you only want to perform this check once for every letter in the input.

10.
Run the program and sing the output out loud — you officially speak whale!

To confirm, if your input string is “turpentine and turtles”, the whale version would read: 'uueeieeauuee'.

Try other tests like 'hi, human' (to get iuua) or 'a whale of a deal!' (to get 'aaeeoaeea').
