Build a Text Adventure
Overview
This project is slightly different than others you have encountered thus far on Codecademy. Instead of a step-by-step tutorial, this project contains a series of open-ended requirements which describe the project you’ll be building. There are many possible ways to correctly fulfill all of these requirements, and you should expect to use the internet, and other resources when you encounter a problem that you cannot easily solve.

Project Goals
Create a C++ text adventure with the storyline of your choosing. The program should use your knowledge of C++ conditionals, logic, and loops.


1.
In order to complete this project, you should be familiar with C++ conditionals and control flow, loops, and setting variables using user input. Ideally, you’ve finished the first four sections of Learn C++ (through Loops).

Project Requirements
2.
Your program should have a storyline with:

a beginning
at least three possible endings
It can help to map out your ideas on paper and draw out your possible branches before you begin coding anything.

In our solution, we used Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland as the premise for our storyline, but you can choose any topic you like! Some possible ideas include:

A fantasy book you love
Your favorite TV show
A funny movie
A murder mystery
A game show

3.
Your program should contain at least three branch points where the user must make a choice about what to do next. At each branch point, the program should:

give the user at least two choices
accept user input
Note that not every story branch needs its own ending; it can also add something and then reconnect with another storyline.

4.
Your program should incorporate at least one kind of loop.

Loops come in handy in a couple scenarios:

to validate user input (e.g., check if the user entered something other than your listed choices and then list the choices again)
to give the user multiple chances to choose a specific outcome (e.g., give a user three chances to pick an option that won’t get them killed)
to continue the adventure until the user makes a particular choice

5.
Your program should handle user choices using conditional logic. We encourage you to use if/else if statements and switch statements where you see fit.

Note: If your user has reached an ending, you can use return 0; to exit the main() function and end the program.
